An algorithm is an explicit, precise, unambiguous, mechanically-executable
sequence of elementary instructions, usually intended to accomplish a specific
purpose. 
Source: Algorithms by Jeff Erickson

For example, here is an algorithm for singing that annoying song “99
Bottles of Water on the Wall”, for arbitrary values of 99:

BottlesOfWater(n):
  For i ← n down to 1
    Sing “i bottles of water on the wall, i bottles of water,”
    Sing “Take one down, pass it around, i − 1 bottles of water on the wall.”
  Sing “No bottles of water on the wall, no bottles of water,”
  Sing “Go to the store, buy some more, n bottles of water on the wall.”

The word “algorithm” does not derive, as algorithmophobic classicists might
guess, from the Greek roots arithmos (άριθμός), meaning “number”, and algos 
(ἄλγος), meaning “pain”. Rather, it is a corruption of the name of the 9th century
Persian scholar Muh. ammad ibn Mus¯a al-Khw¯ arizm¯ ¯ Al-Khwarizm ¯ ¯ is perhaps
best known as the writer of the treatise Al-Kitab al-mukhtasar fıhısab al-ğabr
wa’l-muqabala ¯ , from which the modern word algebra derives. In a different
treatise, al-Khwarizm described the modern decimal system for writing and
manipulating numbers—in particular, the use of a small circle or sifr to represent
a missing quantity—which had been developed in India several centuries earlier.

The methods described in this latter treatise, using either written figures or
counting stones, became known in English as algorism or augrym, and its figures
became known in English as ciphers.

https://www.historyofinformation.com/detail.php?entryid=243
About 825 Abū ʿAbdallāh Muḥammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmi, a Persian mathematician, 
astronomer, and geographer at the House of Wisdom (Bait al-Hikma) in Baghdad, developed the 
concept of a written process to be followed to achieve some goal. Al-Khwarizmi wrote a book 
on Hindu-Arabic numerals, giving the name algorithm to this process through the Latinization 
of his last name:

"The Arabic text is lost but a Latin translation, Algoritmi de numero Indorum (in English 
Al-Khwarizmi on the Hindu Art of Reckoning) gave rise to the word algorithm deriving from his 
name in the title. Unfortunately the Latin translation . . . .  is known to be much changed 
from al-Khwarizmi's original text (of which even the title is unknown). The work describes the 
Hindu place-value system of numerals based on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 0. The first use 
of zero as a place holder in positional base notation was probably due to al-Khwarizmi in this 
work. Methods for arithmetical calculation are given, and a method to find square roots is known 
to have been in the Arabic original although it is missing from the Latin version" 
(http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Biographies/Al-Khwarizmi.html).

Although both place-value notation and al-Khwarizm ¯ ¯ı’s works were already
known by some European scholars, the “Hindu-Arabic” numeric system was
popularized in Europe by the medieval Italian mathematician and tradesman
Leonardo of Pisa, better known as Fibonacci. Thanks in part to his 1202 book
Liber Abaci, written figures began to replace the counting table (then known as
an abacus) and finger arithmetic as the preferred platform for calculation in 
Europe in the 13th century—not because written decimal figures were easier to
learn or use, but because they provided an audit trail. Ciphers became common
in Western Europe only with the advent of movable type, and truly ubiquitous
only after cheap paper became plentiful in the early 19th century.
Eventually the word algorism evolved into the modern algorithm, via folk
etymology from the Greek arithmos (and perhaps the previously mentioned
algos). Thus, until very recently, the word algorithm referred exclusively
to mechanical techniques for place-value arithmetic using “Arabic” numerals.
People trained in the fast and reliable execution of these procedures were called
algorists or computators, or more simply, computers.
